---
title: "Allocating a dedicated host for Mac instances"
sidebar_position: 2
slug: /bitrise-platform/infrastructure/bitrise-on-aws--manual-setup/allocating-a-dedicated-host-for-mac-instances
sidebar_label: Allocating a dedicated host for EC2 Mac instances
---

Every Amazon EC2 Mac instance needs to run on a dedicated host. To be able to run the Bitrise AMI on an EC2 Mac instance, you'll need to allocate a dedicated host and launch the EC2 Mac instance on that host. Doing that requires knowing the host ID which AWS automatically generates when you allocate a host.

:::note[AWS pricing for Mac dedicated hosts]

For macOS instances, a dedicated host must be allocated. On-Demand EC2 Mac Dedicated Hosts have a minimum host allocation and billing duration of 24 hours. For more details, check out the official AWS documentation: [Amazon EC2 Dedicated Hosts Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/dedicated-hosts/pricing/#Pricing_for_Dedicated_Hosts).

:::

:::important[Service quotas]

Make sure you have enough service quotas in your selected region to be able to launch a dedicated host.

- [Viewing current quotas](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-resource-limits.html#view-limits).
- [Request an increase](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-resource-limits.html#request-increase).

:::

1. On the EC2 Dashboard, find the **Instances** menu on the left navigation bar.
1. Select **Dedicated Hosts**.
1. Click **Allocate dedicated host**.
1. Fill out the required fields:

   - **Name tag**: This will be the name of your host.

     :::note[Host ID]

     The name is not the same as the host ID which you need to launch an EC2 instance on the dedicated host. The host ID is automatically generated by AWS.

     :::
   - **Instance family**: **mac2**
   - **Instance type**: **mac2.metal, mac2-m2.metal, mac2-m2pro.metal**
   - **Availability Zone**: It depends on the subnets you plan to use. AWS will tell you if there is no node capacity in your chosen zone.
   - **Quantity**: The number of hosts you want to create.
   - **Host maintenance**: Disabled. The `mac2` instance family does not support host maintenance
1. When you're ready, click **Allocate**.

Once the host is ready, you can proceed to launch an EC2 Mac instance.
